Stream GraphQL API docs, deprecate per-video analytics (#6590)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/stream/getting-analytics/fetching-bulk-analytics.md

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: GraphQL Analytics API
weight: 1
---

# GraphQL Analytics API

Stream provides analytics about both live video and video uploaded to Stream, via the GraphQL API described below, as well as in the [Stream dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/stream/analytics).

> The Stream Analytics API uses the Cloudflare GraphQL Analytics API, which can be used across many Cloudflare products. For more about GraphQL, rate limits, filters, and sorting, refer to the [Cloudflare GraphQL Analytics API docs](analytics/graphql-api).

Author: https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-docs/actions/runs/3415688332/jobs/5685079869

<img width="719" alt="Screen Shot 2022-11-07 at 5 59 56 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1221592/200456596-3a37639d-55b8-41cf-a344-4c4c51279352.png">

CI not happy about this URL, not sure why?

Reviewer: I think because it's missing the `/` before analytics.

> The Stream Analytics API uses the Cloudflare GraphQL Analytics API, which can be used across many Cloudflare products. For more about GraphQL, rate limits, filters, and sorting, refer to the [Cloudflare GraphQL Analytics API docs](analytics/graphql-api).

Author: ```suggestion
The Stream Analytics API uses the Cloudflare GraphQL Analytics API, which can be used across many Cloudflare products. For more about GraphQL, rate limits, filters, and sorting, refer to the [Cloudflare GraphQL Analytics API docs](/analytics/graphql-api).
```

## Getting started

1. [Generate a Cloudflare API token](https://dash.cloudflare.com/profile/api-tokens) with the **Account Analytics** permission.
2. Use a GraphQL client of your choice to make your first query. [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) has a built-in GraphQL client which can help you run your first query and introspect the GraphQL schema to understand what is possible.

> See the sections below for available metrics, dimensions, fields, and example queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the sections below for available metrics, dimensions, fields, and example queries.
```

Stream collects data about the number of minutes of video delivered to viewers for all live and on-demand videos played via HLS or DASH, regardless of whether or not you use the [Stream Player](/stream/viewing-videos/using-the-stream-player/).

### Filters and Dimensions

| Field               | Description                                                                                              |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `date`              | Date                                                                                                     |
| `datetime`          | DateTime                                                                                                 |
| `uid`               | UID of the video                                                                                         |
| `clientCountryName` | ISO 3166 alpha2 country code from the client who viewed the video                                        |
| `creator`           | The [Creator ID](/stream/manage-video-library/creator-id/) associated with individual videos, if present |

> Some filters, like `date`, can be used with operators, such as `gt` (greater than) and `lt` (less than), as shown in the example query below. For more advanced filtering options, see [filtering](https://developers.cloudflare.com/analytics/graphql-api/features/filtering/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some filters, like `date`, can be used with operators, such as `gt` (greater than) and `lt` (less than), as shown in the example query below. For more advanced filtering options, refer to [filtering](https://developers.cloudflare.com/analytics/graphql-api/features/filtering/).
```

### Metrics

| Node                                | Field           | Description                                |
| ----------------------------------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `streamMinutesViewedAdaptiveGroups` | `minutesViewed` | Minutes of video delivered                 |

> | `streamMinutesViewedAdaptiveGroups` | `count`         | Number of times video playback has started |

Author: ```suggestion

```

{{<Aside header="Client-side analytics are only available with the Stream Player">}}
Client-side analytics are only collected when the [Stream Player](/stream/viewing-videos/using-the-stream-player/) is used. If you use a different player, only server-side analytics will be available.
{{</Aside>}}

### Filters and Dimensions

| Field               | Description                                                       |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `date`              | Date                                                              |
| `datetime`          | DateTime                                                          |
| `uid`               | UID of the video                                                  |
| `clientCountryName` | ISO 3166 alpha2 country code from the client who viewed the video |
| `deviceBrowser`     | Browser                                                           |
| `deviceOs`          | Device operating system                                           |
| `deviceType`        | Device type                                                       |

> Some filters, like `date`, can be used with operators, such as `gt` (greater than) and `lt` (less than), as shown in the example query below. For more advanced filtering options, see [filtering](https://developers.cloudflare.com/analytics/graphql-api/features/filtering/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some filters, like `date`, can be used with operators, such as `gt` (greater than) and `lt` (less than), as shown in the example query below. For more advanced filtering options, refer to [filtering](https://developers.cloudflare.com/analytics/graphql-api/features/filtering/).
```
